# Wazuh - Setting up and Kicking the tires

### Table of Contents

- [Why Wazuh?]()
- [Documentation Review]()
- [Set'er up!]()
- [Kicking The Tires]()

### Why Wazuh?

- Wazuh is a great open source SIEM that has XDR capabilities. XDR stands for Extended Detection and Response which means it automatically correlates data across multiple security layers - Like email, endpoint, server, cloud, and networks.
- So XDR means that it includes multiple Detect and Respond capabilities including both Endpoint Detection and Response and Network Detection and Response
- It's open source! This means we can see the code and that there is a community supporting it. Anyone interested in participating with the project need only join the community. This is so cool!
- Free! It can be hard to learn some of the tools used in cyber security because so many come with costly yearly licensing fees. Finding the free or cheap options to practice your skills is incredibly valuable!
- It's well designed for small to mid-sized environments.
- Built in alerting!
- Primarily used for security monitoring, threat detection, and compliance.
- A nice set of documentation for us to get started on their websites [Documentation Page](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/index.html).

Why not E.L.K.(Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana)?

- Why not bring a monster truck to a soap box derby? Although ELK is pretty cool and widely used, it doesn't quite fit in with our system.
- No built in alerting. You'll need to plug in to other tools or plugins to have notifications and alerts.
- ELK is designed to handle massive amounts of data. There may be reasons for people to use ELK even though it doesn't fit their requirements, like practicing with it because you're looking for a job with a company that uses it. However, it's also important to understand what tool is right for the job. Just like a carpenter needs to know the difference between a framing hammer and a sledge, I think it is equally important for IT workers to understand their tools - so I'm trying to do that.
- I'll still probably play with this at some point because it is so ubiquitous and powerful.
- Primarily used for log analysis, operational monitoring, and gleaning insights from large data collection through visualization.
  - We might not be able to generate enough events to really see value from ELK.

### Documentation Review

When we start looking through the documentation we see that there are 4 components to Wazuh: Indexer, Server, Dashboard, and Agents. Here's what the docs say about each:

- [Indexer](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-indexer.html): "The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable, full-text search and analytics engine. This Wazuh central component indexes and stores alerts generated by the Wazuh server and provides near real-time data search and analytics capabilities. The Wazuh indexer can be configured as a single-node or multi-node cluster, providing scalability and high availability."
- [Server](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/getting-started/components/wazuh-server.html): "The Wazuh server component analyzes the data received from the agents, triggering alerts when threats or anomalies are detected. It is also used to manage the agents configuration remotely and monitor their status." It also mentions how you can integrate ServiceNow, Jira, PagerDuty, and Slack, and how it enriches alert data with MITRE ATT&CK, PCI DSS, GDPR, CIS, and NIST 800-53 to provide context. Nice!
-

### Set'er up!

### Kicking The Tires
